# Anoop_Chinmayee

Title: Academic World Journey Explorer
Purpose: We built an interactive dashboard which integrates MySQL, MongoDB, and Neo4j to help users explore research areas, identify leading universities and faculty members, and plan an academic path for themselves. The target users are students or prospective graduate applicants who want to narrow down their list of research interests and potential programs that they want to attend. The main objectives of our application are discovery and evaluation, meaning users can view trends of relevant research areas and scour the top universities and research professors of a specific interest they have. 
Demo: https://mediaspace.illinois.edu/edit/1_8tf346a9 
Installation: For installation, you should first begin by cloning the repository and ensuring you have the relevant python dependencies installed and ready to go. You would then have to make sure that MySQL, MongoDB, and Neo4j servers are running locally to access the databases. Then, confirm that they are connected to the python scripts (mysql_utils.py, mongodb_utis.py, neo4j_utils.py) with your user login and password information. 
Usage: Begin by opening your project directory and typing in ‘streamlit run app.py’. This prompts streamlit to begin running your project. Next, you are prompted with inputting your first and last name, followed by an email address on the home page that greets you saying “Welcome to the Academic World Journey Explorer”. Click the ‘enter’ button and you are taken to the next screen where you are prompted to enter a keyword of your choice for what area of research you are interested in. When selecting a research area, you are welcomed with a graph displaying the number of publications from university level faculty over the last 15 years, showing a trend in your selected topic. You can save this research area as a favorite to your user created profile by clicking ‘Save Interest to My Profile’. Immediately thereafter, a histogram is displayed showing the rankings of universities by publication count for your research area. This allows the user to view which universities specialize in that research area and publish the most research papers. Next, you are greeted with the Top 10 faculty from all universities regarding your keyword. From here, you can click ‘View Profile’ to get an in-depth description of each faculty member's profile, such as their position at the university and their top publications. You can also save a faculty member to your favorites list on your profile by clicking ‘Save to my favorites’. Lastly, our application shows a research network graph based upon your research area. It shows all the relevant professors and faculty members who have contributed to that research area, as well as other research areas from said faculty members. 
Design: Our application has 4 total python files: app.py for the single page streamlit UI; and 3 data access layers: mysql_utils.py, mongodb_utis.py, neo4j_utils.py. Our SQL python file mostly contains relational queries for keywords, university rankings, and finding faculty with keywords. The MongoDB python file takes care of all profile related document reading and writing. This refers to creating a user profile collection to save favorites and store them, as well as retrieving faculty profiles to view.  The Neo4j python file is responsible for developing the research network graph queries. The beginning page with login authentication is stored in MongoDB. The keyword selector leverages MySQL and drives all the following views. Our trend chart is reliant on MongoDB to get publications by keywords. Saving interests is also reliant on MongoDB. University rankings utilize MySQL to get university rankings for the publication counts dependent on the keyword. Our top faculty list leverages both MySQL and MongoDB, as MySQL is needed for querying the faculty depending on keywords and then MongoDB is used to retrieve a rich profile of the faculty as well as their descriptions. Anything related to saving favorites is also leveraged by MongoDB. Lastly, our research network graph uses Neo4j. 

Implementation: Our app was implemented using Streamlit and a bunch of other libraries. Specifically, streamlit_agraph helped us with Nodes and Edges for the research network graph used by Neo4j. Datetime libraries were vital for displaying the keyword trends over the last 15 years. The charts and histograms leveraged matplotlib. For MongoDB, we used pymongo to establish a connection to the MongoDB database. MySQL used the mysql.connector python library to establish connections to our MySQL database. We also used neo4j python library for developing graphs. 
Database Techniques: We have used the database technique Constraint. A constraint in the user_profile collection is implemented to allow email ids only with a certain format. We have used the database technique Indexing. An index is created in keywords table SQL since our dashboard widgets are around fetching data based on keywords. Adding the index will make the fetch faster. We have used the database technique View. While fetching the university ranking based on the keyword it will use the view to fetch the count
Extra-Credit Capabilities: We did not make an attempt to add any extra credit capabilities. 
Contributions: Anoop and Chinmayee both contributed a good amount of hours into this project. Anoop worked more on the functionality of the dashboard with MySQL and Neo4j, while Chinmayee did most of the work ensuring that MongoDB is functioning as it should. Both team members put equal effort and time into this project. Altogether, both team members were involved in all aspects of the dashboard, from creativity and ideas to helping with debugging, creating visualizations, and making sure that all requirements were met. 
